f
Up to this point, ​you've explored class relationships that were relatively straight forward. ​But what happens when things get complex? ​How will you know which classes inherit from which, fortunately method ​resolution order or MRO provides rules that can help make sense of that. ​By the end of this video, you'll know how to explain the basic rules ​of method order, resolution and how they apply to inheritance classes. ​Explain the concept of code linearization with respect and ​multiple inheritance and deploy method order, resolution functions in python. ​You've likely encountered some examples of single inheritance where a child class ​only inherits from a single parent class. ​But it's important to know that python has many types of inheritance.
​The categorization types are based on the number of parents and ​child classes as well as the hierarchical order, including simple inheritance. ​There are broadly four types of inheritance. ​The first type is called a simple inheritance, ​which you've already dealt with. ​There is also multiple inheritance, which involves a child class ​inheriting from more than one parent next is multi level inheritance, ​which is inheritance taking place on several levels. ​Then you have hierarchical inheritance, ​which concerns how several sub classes inherit from a common parent. ​And finally, you could say that there is fifth type called hybrid inheritance, ​which mixes characteristics of the others. ​As these inheritance types demonstrate inheritance becomes increasingly complex ​as the number of classes in a project grow and become more interdependent.
​So how did developers solve this issue with the use ​of MRO determines the order in which a given method. ​Or attributes is passed through in a search of the hierarchy of classes for ​its resolution or in other words, from where it belongs, ​the order of the resolution is called linearization of a class. ​And MRO defines the rules that's follows. ​The default order in python is bottom to top, left to right ​when imagining the inheritance of these python classes in a tree structure. ​Let's take the simplest example of single inheritance. ​The object is first searched in the class of that object and ​then in its super class. ​What about in an example where classes is inheriting from two classes, ​let's say Z is inheriting from classes X and Y.
​In this instance, the MRO will be Z, Y, and then X. ​In other words, the MRO works its way bottom to top and then from left to right. ​But things become much more complicated when more levels are added to ​the hierarchy. ​So developers rely on algorithms to build MROs. ​Old style classes used in depth, first search algorithm or ​DFS from python version three onwards, python versions have moved ​to the new style of classes that rely on the C three linearization algorithm. ​The implementation of the C three linearization algorithm is complex and ​beyond the scope of this lesson, but for now, ​here's an overview of a few rules that it follows. ​The algorithm follows monotonicity, which broadly means that ​an inherited property cannot skip over direct parent classes.
​It also follows the inheritance graph of the class and ​the super class is visited only after visiting the methods of the local classes. ​>> This logic will make more sense later when you explore more complex ​class relationships in a future lesson. ​Next let's take a moment to explore some methods of finding the MRO of a class. ​First, I'll begin with the demonstration of the MRO attributes or function. ​Let's take a multilevel inheritance example comprised of ​three classes ,class A, class B and class C. ​Class A is the parent class with B and C the respective child classes. ​In other words, be inherits from A and C inherits from B.
​When I print the return for calling the MRO function over ​class Ce the output indeed confirms that this is the order that is followed. ​So why is this important? ​Well, imagine the class A has a variable num with value of five and ​then Class B also has a number variable with a value of nine Here, the morrow ​function tells you quickly that class C will inherit the nine value from class B. ​Finally, let's examine one more function which is the help function. ​If I take the code from earlier and ​replace the MRO function in the print statement with the help function. ​It provides a much more detailed output with MRO information at the top. ​It also contains information about the data descriptors and ​types used inside the code.
​In this video, you received a brief introduction to method resolution order ​and how it affects inheritance in different scenarios. ​These are both very broad topics, but hopefully it helps you understand ​the complexity of code that is possible in python.
